From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Jeff Macio
Lake announcing show number 27.
Recorded Tuesday August 1st, 2006. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
COVID Smith tools, makers of
code Smith and extensible template
based code generator for dotnet
Hanselman its listeners. Get $100
off COVID Smith professional with
coupon code H M 100
online@covidsmithtools.com and don't forget to
visit Peter bloom.com. Start with
better controls finish with better
sites online@peterblum.com. Support is also
provided by dotnet developers journal.
The world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Carl about.net
reflection. Hi, this is Carl Franklin.
You're listening to Hansel minutes.
I'm here with Scott Hanselman
is we always are a,
this week. Scotty, what are
we talking about? reflection.net reflection.
The, the, the most abused
thing within the framework, right?
It's the, you know, I've
got a nail and every
my hammer looks like reflection.
Yeah. I've I know that
there are vast performance differences
between different elements of what
we call reflection. So this
ought to be a good
show. So what, what, what
kind of things have you
used reflection for yourself? Well,
actually I've used reflection to
create plugins. It's nice to
be able to just dynamically
load in assembly and examine
it for types and for
interfaces in particular. And if
those interfaces exist on a
class, I would instantiate the
class with another call, cast
it to my interface and
start calling the members of
that interface. Right. So at
that point, your reflection is
done and you've cashed that
interface. Yes. Right? So reflection
of course is the kind
of the introspection, the runtime
valuation of what a, what
an assembly class, a type
can do. You can basically
say for some type of,
I've got the Karl class
and I want to say,
give me all of the
members of this class, give
me all the properties of
the constructors. I can get
all that information without knowing
anything ahead of time. Not
knowing anything, compile time about
that class. It's the kind
of stuff you had to
be done box to do
with calm, right? Yeah. Back
in the day was hard.
Now it's not hard. And
this is where we get
into trouble. Reflections, abused a
lot. There's a lot of
really powerful things that you
can do with reflection. Of
course, the idea is that
if you can ask questions
about an object without having
seen the object before you
can do things like, you
know, object, relational mapping, save
the object into the database,
you can do things like
an hibernate to map the
object to tables in the
database where you get in
trouble is when your objects
get larger and larger, and
then you get collections of
objects and you still find
yourself poking around in reflection.
So if you had an
object, the Karl object had
50, 60, a hundred properties
and you had a collection
full of a hundred Karl
objects. You start doing the
math, you know, a number
of objects, times X number
of properties. And it gets
really expensive. Yeah. And if
you walk the object hierarchy,
you could be going down
lots of paths, right? Exactly.
If you've got an object
that's just by itself asking
questions about its properties is
pretty straightforward, but if you've
got an object, like you
mentioned, that ha is part
of a larger object hierarchy
asking it about itself it's
parents and walking the tree
can become very, very expensive.
There's some really good articles
up at MSDN, a shrink
stir slash H one K
has gotten a good article
about common performance pitfalls buried
within that MSDN article. There's
a particularly interesting figure called
what is slow in reflection
at shrink stir slash H
two three. And this talks
about what aspects of reflection
are pretty, pretty fast, pretty
light. And what's very costly.
A lot of people don't
take the time to measure
this stuff. And really when
you're using reflection, if you
do one thing, measure your
code profiling becomes so important
when you're using reflection, Let's
summarize what's fast and what's
costly, Right? So object dot,
get type, you know, asking
an object. What it's type
is pretty, pretty lightweight objects,
no, there types, you can
ask them very quickly. I'm
asking objects. If this type
is equivalent to that type
are pretty straightforward. Getting the
type of a member pretty
straightforward. These are all very
lightweight methods where you get
in trouble is like get
custom attributes. So asking an
object for any particular custom
attributes that live on that
object. And when you really
get into trouble, like you
mentioned, is get custom attributes
when you pass in true
for Recurse walks the entire
object tree. That's about the
most expensive thing you can
possibly do in reflection is
ask, ask the object. Do
you have any custom attributes
and ask all of your
children, do they have any
custom attributes and roll them
up Now? Is that just
because of the scale of
the number of properties and
trees that you possibly get
as your object get bigger?
Or is it because that
there's some sort of inefficient
mechanism that searches these things?
I think that it, those
are the kinds of things
that traverse the, the, the
depth of the object hierarchy.
Yeah. And it's going to
have to, it has to
ask not only what attributes
exist, but then it has
to resolve the types of
those attributes. Okay. So typically
you would put a custom
attribute, right? You're for a,
you know, get custom attributes.
You want to know what
are some attributes that I
put on that may be
in various and sundry assemblies
that can get pretty expensive.
If those assemblies haven't been
resolved yet, most often though,
people are using reflection for
custom attributes. They have an
object and they want to
add the Carl funky database
attribute asking for that as
expensive now asking for it's
not necessarily a bad thing.
Yeah. I was going to
say, isn't it only when
you use the, Recurse a
bit that it gets expensive.
I mean, what if you're
just looking at an object
that has 15, 20 properties,
you want to get an
attribute on one of those
properties, If you do it
once it's no problem what
you want to measure. What
you want to profile is
am I doing this all
the time in the course
of a standard running of
my application, Right? If, if
the, if hitting a regular
Page and an asp.net application
involves 50 reflection calls, you
need to ask yourself how
CPU bound do I want
things to be? If you've
got an asp.net page that
does 50 reflection calls just
in standard business, just to
the standard path, through that
page calls, reflection, it might
work fine, 10, 20, a
hundred users concurrently. But when
you start getting into big
scale, you have to ask
yourself, is this value added?
So then you wanna think
about caching. The example that
I can give is, is
DAS blog, right? DAS, blogs,
and inherited from code that
was inherited. That was inherited
from another guy. Does blogs
got a really interesting template
language, right? You've done the
templates on, on your blog,
your intellectual hedonism blog in
the blog templates. We've got
our own, you know, macro
language. So we say angle
bracket percent, title percent angle
bracket. And then what we
do is we parse that
template. We do some caching,
and then I look for
a property called title within
the macros class. Problem is
previous versions of DAS blog.
We will go and interrogate
that macro object. Do you
have a property called title?
Tell me about that property.
What kind of type does
return, yada, yada, yada, and
then call it dynamically every
single page view for every
single item on that page.
So if your front page
of your blog has 20
items, we're going to do
a reflection costs 20 times.
This has typically been the
most complicated part of this
particular blog software. Yeah, the
most scary. And, but it
worked so no one ever
looked at it last night,
about 2:00 AM. I was looking
at it, trying to chase
down a totally different thing
and realize, well, this is
just stupid, the type itself,
in this particular instance, in
this use of reflection, isn't
changing, the title is going
to be the same place.
It is every single time.
Right. Right. All those macros
within your template and dash
blog, aren't changing. So are
you planning on changing the
way that that works or
did you, or, Well, so
that was about 2:00 AM when
I figured that out. So
about four 30 last night,
or this morning when I
figured out just cashing, that
would be the right thing
to do. It took a
little thought because we have
expressions and sub expressions and
the DAS block, the DAS
blog, macro language supports passing
in parameters. So it's pretty
complicated. Basically. We're letting you
call functions from our, from
our template engine. So basically
I just started filling up
a hash table. There was
some threading issues and I
started keeping track of this
stuff. So we were interrogating
and allowing the, the template
developer to look at fields,
properties, and methods. So it
was a very flexible way
of doing things. So these
things in reflection, all derived
from a thing called member
info, right? Information about the
member in a class, right?
So we also support custom
macros. So DAS blog knows
that you might want to
call a macro on a
class that didn't ship with
us blog. So we'll go
in and resolve all that
stuff for you once we've
done it, though, we needed
to catch that. So we
cashed this member info object.
Now deriving from, from member
info are the three different
kinds of things. The class
can have. You've got your
methods, fields and properties. So
you got a property info,
a method and phone, a
field info. And then we
just keep track of those
on properties and fields. You
call get value and you
say, Hey, give me the
value of that property. Give
me the value of that
field, all done kind of
dynamically. And then on methods
we say method, you know,
I think it's invoke member.
Now we cash all I've
cash, all that now. And
we spend more time executing
code and less time interrogating
code. It was a really
silly thing to have to
have never caught. But I
think that, that, that happens
a lot when people start
using reflection because you get
it working. Yeah. And then
you never really visited again.
You never come back. Cashing
your member info is a
really, really quick way to
get, get some performance benefits
when you're using reflection. It'd
be nice. If there was
a cache built into the
reflection system, when it, then
you wouldn't have to do
any of that, it would,
but you know, reflection is
one of those things where
they want to make it
work for everybody. So I
think they set it up
to be as truly as
late bound as possible. Right.
It makes sense that you
never know something might have
changed, but you brought up
where you bring up a
really interesting point. So this
is going to get a
little more advanced. Maybe we'll
blow a few, few minds
here. Cause I found this
really interesting. So you know
about the code Dom, right?
The ability to kind of
emit code at runtime. Yes.
So there's, you can use
reflection or you can use
the code dominant vs. Live
2004. I think it was
Josh Holmes. Did a talk
on reflection versus the code
dumb at shrink stir slash
H one V as in
Victor and has an interesting
discussion about when one might
use reflection and one might
use the code dumb. A
lot of times people spend
reflection, CPU cycles, accessing properties.
Basically you have a property
called Fu that could be
on an object, but you
just don't know enough about
that object at runtime. Your
example of using interfaces is
always appropriate, right? To think
about, am I using reflection
or should I be using
interfaces? Yeah. Right. Cause once
you get that interface, you
use reflection to get the
interface. And once you've discovered
that, Oh, the Karl object
implements. I Fu alright, I'll
hang on to an IFU
reference and then I'm fast,
fast, fast. Yep. That's great.
So sometimes you want to
look at reflection code and
see if an interface would
be more appropriate, but there's
a thing called fast property
accessor's and there's a number
of people who've been doing
work on this. There's a
really great article at code
project. That's at shrink stir
slash . So check this
out. Some of the situations
that you might want to
retrieve the value of an
object property, or maybe a
field where you don't necessarily
know enough about that member
until runtime would be like
maybe writing a shorter or
a comparer to do a
sorting of an array. You've
got a collection of objects
and they're all different. You
might want to do some
sorting, some dynamic sorting on
that. Perhaps you might want
to do filtering based on
values of particular members or
serialization. Right. You know, there's
the XNL serializer, but a
lot of people write their
own sterilizers. We've written a
couple of serializers at Karelian
that serialized objects into formats
that are not a XML
like them, value pairs and
things like that. So there's
article up at code project
talks about getting property. Typically
getting talks about getting the
value of a property of
an object. So ordinarily, you'd
say like type of Carl
dot get property, and then
you'd put in a string,
the name of the property.
So if the coral object
had a foo, you'd say
type of Karl, get property
Fu you get back a
property info. So this is
a generic reflection object that
knows about that particular property.
And that operation get property
is expensive, right? The act,
the asking of that, all
the guests, the guests. Exactly.
Now the next thing is
once you've got a hold
of that property, you have
to go and say, get
the value of that property.
And this is where it
gets a little confusing because
in reflection, everything takes twice
as it's twice as hard
as if you did it
by yourself. Ordinarily you just
say Carl dot Fu. And
in one line you've said,
give me the property value
of the Carl object called
Fu and reflection. You have
to get the property itself,
kind of get the handle
to the method and then
get the value from it.
So you say, get property,
you get a property info.
You say, get value. So,
you know, this works fine.
When you have to do
it in a loop, it
gets really, really slow. So
with this reflection dot emit,
this is a namespace within
the.net framework that allows you
to generate code dynamically. So
this article up on code
project that I'm talking about,
this shrink stir slash
has a really interesting way
of doing things. Basically he's
dynamically generating a property accessor
at runtime, emitting the, the
get of that into a
tiny little assembly. That's just
specific for you. And then
letting you call that and
it's strongly typed. So basically
you're, you're taking those two
lines, compiling them up and
saying, really give me the
actual handle to the foo
on the Carl object, and
then I'll cash it. And
it's faster than reflection, right?
And it's faster than reflection.
Exactly. It's about 30 to
50 times faster. Wow. Now
it's still only about as
half as fast as using
compile code, but it's, it's
pretty darn interesting. Yeah. I'll
say there's another great article
at code project at shrink
stir slash H 28. That's
about fast dynamic property accessories
with C-sharp and this one
is really interesting. He's done
a very nice job measuring
and quantifying what's what's fast
and what's not. And he
creates an interface called I
property accessor. This interface has
a get and a set.
Okay. So this is a
little interface that he's going
to use and he will
create implementations of I property
accessor that know how to
get and set one kind
of property. I got it.
So he's got to get
her instead of for each
time. Right. So he'll get
it. He'll have an I
property accessor, one instance of
an eye property, et cetera,
for each type property combination.
So if the Carl object
had five properties and he
needed to get to each
of them, he would end
up with five instances of
anti property accessor and a
hash table somewhere. Nate makes
sense. Yeah. So he's actually
getting one eye property access
or per property. That's pretty
cool. Yeah. It's pretty clever.
So he actually walks you
step by step through how
he's admitting the I L
and then cashing these automatically.
He deals with certain types
and you can extend his
stuff to support different types
that your properties might be
returning. He's using things like
the defined dynamic assembly in
the module builder and things
like that. And this will
work in dotnet one, one,
one as well as a,
as well as in two.
Oh, So speaking of two,
Oh, what's different about reflection
in  than in one,
two or one, one rather.
So Roy or Trove has
got a couple of things
about that. It's shrink stir
slash H one w and
has got some articles about
what has changed. And then
at shrink stir slash H
two O there's information about
what is updated in reflection
2.0, the thing, some of
the things that are really
interesting from a security standpoint
is the notion that you
could load an assembly just
for purposes of reflection. Yeah.
So basically you could load
something in a reflection, only
context. You could load an
assembly and ask questions about
it, about its attributes information,
but you couldn't actually execute
the code. This allows for
some of the loader restrictions
to be relaxed and lets
you reflect over the objects,
get information about them. You
can also reflect over the
method body. This is a
new thing, a method info
we talked about when you
get ahold of a method,
but now there's a new
method called get method, body.
This actually gives you the
IFL back from that particular
method. So you're actually getting
a byte stream of the
intermediate language. You could do
all sorts of stuff, manipulating
your code dynamically. This is
pretty advanced stuff. I would
just, my mind just went
to a couple of places
where I could use that.
That's really cool. Are there
any performance differences between a
reflection two Oh and 1.1,
The word on the street
that, that two Oh, is
something like 30 to 40%
faster, but I personally only
have anecdotal evidence, but it
is faster than, than one
than one X. How, how
much faster? I don't know
that just because it's a
little faster though. It doesn't
mean that one. It has
carte blanche to go and
be evil with it. Sure.
Right. Reflection. Is she so
abused right now? And that's
really what if you get
one thing out of this
particular podcasts measure, measure, measure
really all day long use
as much as you can
to find out, am I
doing the right thing, a
balance, you're going to use
a little reflection. Sometimes you'll
use interfaces. Sometimes you'll use
Kodama or reflection, not admit
to, to talk about, to
talk to your objects. We've
seen Rocky latkas csla.net by
any chance. Yeah. That's good
stuff. He uses reflection on
reflection in that. Yeah. He
uses reflection to do a
multi multilevel undo, which I
thought was a brilliant use
of reflection. I'm really mind-bending
stuff that you can do
with reflection. For me working
at a financial services company,
we want the balance between
ease of development, where reflection
makes things easier. If we
can serialize objects and scale
to be really well balanced,
you don't want to pay
for it every single day
on every single transaction, just
because you saved the developer
10 minutes. Sure. But at
this, you know, at the
same time though, if it
takes a developer two weeks
to fix something, to make
it faster, you have to
really balance those things out.
We use a combination of
reflection and cogeneration that to
get the scale that we
need to. And that involves
using all of those three
tools where one would ordinarily
use just reflection and some
of those slower APIs, like
when we were talking about
what are the slow APIs
get a custom attributes is
just one of them. All
of the get API are
pretty costly. Activator create instance
is pretty expensive as well
as a invoke member. These
are the kinds of things
you want to cash. I
always thought about activator is
one of those things that,
you know, the, the Uber
geeks used because, you know,
create instance because, you know,
in VB we have all
sorts of ways to create
objects and run them. I
mean, why would you activate
or create instance over new,
for example? Okay. So activate
or create instances the really
late bound. I want an
instance of an object and
all I have is assembly
qualified name. So activated to
create instances what you would
typically use in a plugin
pattern. If I want to
have an I plugin object
and I've got three different
guys, who've created three different
assemblies in different languages, but
they all implement my I
plugin interface. I would get
their assembly qualified names. That's
the class comma and the
assembly name. So Karl dot
plugin comma Franklins would be
in the Franklins dot DLL.
I would put that in
my config file, I would
say activate or create instance.
And I would hand it
my assembly qualified name, and
then run around with reflection
inside those types, finding the
one that implements I plugin.
Once I find that, then
I know how to, you
know, get, get I plugins
very, very quickly and then
I can hang onto them.
So then the reflection cost
is pretty, is pretty low.
Now using new of course
is you have to know
the object at compile time.
You have to bind to
it with, with reflection and
with a plugin style architecture
or provider architecture. There is
no actual.net assembly reference to
that type. Everything's incredibly late
bound. It seems like performance
is a big concern of
yours. Are there any, any
lists to go to where
people talk about, you know,
here's the top 10 tips
for improving performance with reflection,
that kind of stuff. An
article from last July is
a really good one. The
shrink stir slash H one
K if you're really, really
concerned about getting some hardcore
reflection, there's some new stuff
that Daniel  is doing
with link on reflection at
shrink stir slash H one
Q it's pretty hardcore. Okay.
If you are confused by
this whole podcast and you
want information about reflection, just
generally take a look at
M O'Reilly's programming C-sharp chapter
18. You can get a
copy of that at Trunkster
slash H one S Oh,
they have a whole chapter
online. Yeah, I think so.
Great. And then if you're
into reflection already, and you're
looking at method and photos
and poking around and calling
things dynamically, take a look
at Roy Rove's method info
visualizer. Right. Remember how visual
studios got plugable visualizers, right?
He's got one for a
visualizing methods that are dynamic
within your debug sessions that
shrink stir slash H one
X Roy's done a lot
of stuff with reflection. He's
also got a, a, something
on deep reflection. Doesn't he?
He does. He did a
talk at a, at tech
ed on deep reflection. It
was a 400 level talk
and it's at shrink stir
slash . What does that
mean? Deep reflection. Anyway, He
was just basically saying, we're
going to dig deep into
reflection. He went into an
aisle, they debugger, he showed
the debugger visualizer. It was
pretty, pretty hardcore. This was
at tech ed Israel this
last year. So the point
here is that I've spent
a lot of time looking
at DAS blog code. I
spent a lot of time
over the last couple of
weeks, looking at a lot
of Kirlian code where we
did reflection when you're doing
things that are typically outside
the scope of, of your
average developer. And you start
getting into a little bit
more senior dev where you're
doing dynamic plugins, cogeneration, dynamic
object, serialization, you start getting
into reflection. It's really, really
powerful, but don't take these
methods for granted. They're very
expensive. But if, if a
method is going to be
deterministic, if it's always going
to return that this type
has the same attributes every
time or that method info
is going to be the
same every time you ask
for it, consider measuring then
doing some caching, measuring again.
If the caching adds the
performance you need, then you
know, maybe you're free and
clear. Otherwise you might want
to think about using the
results of your reflection to
do some emitting of I'll
actually generate the code at,
at runtime. We do that
with our object serialization, we've
got a three or 400
times 300, three or 400
X performance boost. When we
went from a reflection based
serializer to an, a reflection
on a Mitt based one.
If you look at like
the way the XML serializer
works, if that used reflection
every single time you serialized,
it would kill you. Yeah.
But we know that the
XML serializer actually generates code.
That's an impressive number. Yeah.
Oh yeah. This was the
thing. I mean, if they're,
if you're using reflection just
by itself, kind of raw,
and you're doing stuff in
loops for loops, I'm going
on and on with like
reflection, you have just a
chunk of code. That's just
begging to be optimized. There's
virtually, virtually everything with reflection
can be squeezed a little
harder and get some more,
some more performance out of
it. All right. And we'll
keep watching your blog for
a new revelations about reflection,
performance improvements as they come
up. Oh yeah. I'm, I'm
always looking for this kind
of stuff. And I'm always
trying to figure out whether
I should use like the
code Dom, which lets you
produce any high level dotnet
language or whether you want
to use like reflection dot
emit and a method, a,
an object called the method
builder lets you actually dynamically
generate methods and memory. You
know, the code Dom will
create DLLs, create EFCs reflection
dot emit, lets you get
down to the little bit
kind of the surgical level
and generate the actual methods
and entry points and objects
at a very low level.
So reflections on emit you
would typically use when you
want really tight control over
your IUL. When you understand
I L well Kodama is
the kind of thing you'd
use to write your own
cogeneration tool or if you
want to write code and
have it come out as
either C-sharp or vb.net. Does
that make sense? Yeah, it
does. I'm not, I'm not
those words. I'm not anxious
to go out and learn
how to write high L
though. You know, then again
he is though That guy
or that person who's that
guy or gal who's listening
to this show more empowered
to have one child with
reflection. Yeah. Well Scott, if
I had to reflect over
this past half hour, I'd
say it was a pretty,
pretty good show. Wouldn't you
have cool. I know I'm
just vibrating with information that
I want to share about
reflection. I'm realizing that this
show was just not, not
complete enough. It was probably
another half an hour to
go into more detail about
like the new dynamic method
stuff and gotten it to,
Oh, that's another shot as
an alternative. Yeah. That's another
show. We'll save it until
then. We'll speak to you
next week. .